@chapter Examples

@section Recorder


@subsection Record mouse motions 
@cindex     Record mouse motions 
Record mouse motions only and save the session to mouse-rec.xnl. 
@example
   @code{cnee --record --mouse --out mouse-rec.xnl}
@end example
After having typed this you can move your mouse round for a while. After Xnee 
has exited you will be able to replay your motions. Xnee will stop
after having record 100 events (this is the default behaviour).


@subsection Record keyboard  
@cindex     Record keyboard 
Record keyboard events only and save log to kbd-rec.xnl. 
@example
   @code{cnee --record --keyboard --out kbd-rec.xnl}
@end example
After having typed this Xnee records all your keyboard actions. After Xnee 
has exited you will be able to replay your keyboard actions. Xnee will stop
after having record 100 events (this is the default behaviour).


@subsection Record keyboard and mouse
@cindex     Record keyboard and mouse
Record keyboard and mouse and save log to km-rec.xnl. 
@example
   @code{cnee --record --keyboard --mouse --out kbd-rec.xnl}
@end example
After having typed this Xnee records all your keyboard and mouse actions. 
So now move your pointer and write some stuff with your keyboard. After Xnee 
has exited you will be able to replay your keyboard and mouse actions. Xnee 
will stop after having record 100 events (this is the default behaviour).



@subsection Record a gnumeric session
@cindex     Record a gnumeric session
Record a gnumeric session. Record 400 events. Save output in file gnumeric.xnl
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm)
@example
@code{xterm&}
@end example

Start Xnee
@example
   @code{cnee --record --keyboard --mouse --events-to-record 400 \}
   @code{ --out gnumeric.xnl&}
@end example

Start gnumeric
@example
@code{gnumeric&}
@end example
Start using gnumeric. Browse the menus above, reset the fonts etc.




@subsection Record a gnumeric session with synchronisation data
@cindex     Record a gnumeric session with synchronisation data
Record a gnumeric session. Record 400 events. Save output in file gnumeric2.xnl

@*
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm)
@code{xterm&}

Start Xnee
@example
   @code{cnee --record --keyboard --mouse --events-to-record 400 \}
   @code{ --out gnumeric2.xnl\}
   @code{--delivered-event-range Expose,MapRequest,LeaveNotify,EnterNotify  &}
@end example

@*
Start gnumeric
@code{gnumeric&}
Start using gnumeric. Browse the menus above, reset the fonts etc.
















@section Replayer

@subsection Replay mouse motions 
@cindex     replay mouse motions 
Replay mouse motions as found in the file mouse-rec.xnl. 
@example
   @code{cnee --replay  --file mouse-rec.xnl}
@end example
Xnee will now imitate exactly what you did when you recorded this file.

@subsection Replay mouse motions using with half speed
@cindex     replay using half speed
Replay mouse motions as found in the file mouse-rec.xnl but with the 
speed set to 50% of the recorded.
@example
   @code{cnee --replay  --file mouse-rec.xnl --speed-percent 50}
@end example
Xnee will now imitate exactly what you did when you recorded this file, 
allthough it will be done in 50% of the recorded time.

@subsection Replay mouse motions using with double speed
@cindex     replay using double speed
Replay mouse motions as found in the file mouse-rec.xnl but with the 
speed set to 200% of the recorded.
@example
   @code{cnee --replay  --file mouse-rec.xnl --speed-percent 200}
@end example
Xnee will now imitate exactly what you did when you recorded this file, 
allthough it will be done twice as fast as when recorded.

@subsection Replay keyboard actions
@cindex     Replay keyboard actions
Replay keyboard events from file kbd-rec.xnl. 
@example
   @code{cnee --replay --file kbd-rec.xnl}
@end example
After having typed this Xnee replays all your keyboard actions. After Xnee 
has exited you will be able to replay your keyboard actions. 



@subsection Replay keyboard and mouse
@cindex     Replay keyboard and mouse
Replay keyboard and mouse from the file km-rec.xnl. 
@example
   @code{cnee --replay --keyboard --mouse --file kbd-rec.xnl}
@end example
After having typed this Xnee replays all your keyboard and mouse actions. 
Xnee moves your pointer and writes the the same stuff as you did when
recording. 



@subsection Replay a gnumeric session
@cindex     Replay a gnumeric session
Replay the gnumeric session above
@*
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm)
@code{xterm&}
Start a new fresh gnumeric spreadsheet
@code{gnumeric&}

Start Xnee
@example
   @code{cnee --replay  --file gnumeric.xnl}
@end example
Xnee will now do the same stuff you did when recording. It may happen 
that some user actions are replayed to early. This is so because Xnee has
no way of knowing if it is in sync with the recorded session.




@subsection Replay a gnumeric session with synchronisation data
@cindex     Replay a gnumeric session with synchronisation data
Replay the second gnumeric session above.
@*
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm)
@code{xterm&}
Start a new fresh gnumeric spreadsheet
@code{gnumeric&}


Start Xnee
@example
   @code{cnee --replay  --file gnumeric2.xnl}
@end example
Xnee will now do the same stuff you did when recording. It may happen 
that the replaying slows down. This is because Xnee is currently out of sync. 
When being out of sync Xnee slows down a bit and checks the thresholds if it
is allowed to continue. Xnee will most probably find itself in sync after
a short while. All recorded user actions should have occured the same way
as when recording.


@subsection Replay a gnumeric session with synchronisation data setting threshold
@cindex     Replay a gnumeric session with synchronisation data setting threshold
Replay the second gnumeric session above.
@*
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm)
@code{xterm&}
Start a new fresh gnumeric spreadsheet
@code{gnumeric&}


@section Retyper

@subsection Retype the help printout
@cindex     Retype the help printout
If you want Xnee to fake a user typing the help printout from xnee
you can use the @code{--type-help} option.
@*
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm) and an editor (e.g emacs).
@example
@code{xterm &}
@end example
@example
@code{emacs &}
@end example
Retype the help printout by starting xnee with a 10 seconds delay delay.
@example
@code{cnee --time 10 --type-help}
@end example
Move your mouse to the editor and make the editor have focus.
Wait a few seconds and xnee will type the help. You will now also have a 
copy of help text.


@subsection Retype a file
@cindex     Retype a file
If you want Xnee to fake a user typing the letters as found in a text 
file you can use the retype mode. Note that it isn't possible to retype all
characters yet. This will be implemented as soon as possible. We'll give 
an example on how to use this mode.
@*
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm)
@example
@code{xterm &}
@end example
Create a text file
@example
@code{echo "Hi Xnee" > testfile.txt}
@end example

Retype the contents of this file to another file by starting xnee 
with a 10 seconds delay delay.
@example
@code{cnee --time 10 --retype-file testfile.txt}
@end example
Start the fabulous editor @code{cat}
@example
@code{cat > copiedfile.txt}
@end example
Wait a few seconds and xnee will retype the letters in the file 
@code{testfile.txt}. You will now also have a copy of that file.
The copy is called copiedfile.txt. This is a realy a stupid way
to copy a file but this option opens up a few possibilities.



@section Distributor
With the distribution mode Xnee can send your device events to 
multiple displays. 

@subsection Distribute your mouse motions 
@cindex     Distribute your mouse motions 
You can distribute your mouse motions to the displays frodo:0.0 and
sam:0.0 
@*
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm)
@example
@code{xterm &}
@end example
Start xnee
@example
@code{cnee --distribute frodo:0,sam:0.0}
@code{ --record --mouse}
@end example

If you have setup authority correct on frodo and sam you will
see all you mouse motions being done on those displays as well.


@subsection Distribute the replaying of mouse motions 
@cindex     Distribute the replaying of mouse motions 
Replay and distribute mouse motions as found in the file 
@code{mouse-rec.xnl}. 
@example
   @code{cnee --replay  --file mouse-rec.xnl}
   @code{ --distribute frodo:0,sam:0.0}
@end example
Xnee will now imitate exactly what you did when you recorded this file on 
your host as well on frodo and sam.



@subsection Distribute the retyping of a file
@cindex     Distribute the retyping of a file
If you want Xnee to to distribute the fakeing of a user typing the 
letters as found in a text file you can use the retype mode together
with the distribution mode. 
@*
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm) on each of the hosts
@example
@code{xterm &}
@end example
Create a text file. 
@example
@code{echo "Hi again Xnee" > distfile.txt}
@end example

Retype the contents of this file to another file by starting xnee 
with a 10 seconds delay delay.
@example
@code{cnee --time 10 --retype-file distfile.txt}
@code{ --distribute frodo:0,sam:0.0 }
@end example
Start the fabulous editor @code{cat} on the terminal emulators on each the 
terminals.
@example
@code{cat > copiedfile.txt}
@end example
@*
If you have setup authority correct on frodo and sam you will, after
a few seconds, see xnee retype the letters in the file 
@code{distfile.txt}. You will now also have three copies of that file.
On copy on each host. The copy is called copiedfile.txt. This might 
seem like a stupid way to copy a file to three locations but this
is just an example.




@section    Key

@subsection Stop Xnee with key
@cindex     Stop Xnee with key 
You can stop xnee by specifying a key. Make
sure that this key isn't grabbed by another X client (e.g by the
Window Manager). Let's say that you want Xnee to stop recording if you press
Control and h. 
@example
   @code{cnee --record --mouse --events-to-record -1 --stop-key h}
@end example
This will make xnee record mouse events until you press h. 
All printouts are done to stdout so you can see that Xnee stops when you
press the key. 
@*
Move your mouse for a while and you'll see xnee print out lots of lines. 
@*
Press h. 
@*
Xnee will now have stopped recording.


@subsection Pausing and resuming Xnee with key
@cindex     Pausing and resuming Xnee with key
You can pause and resum xnee by specifying a key. 
Make sure that this key isn't grabbed by another X client (e.g by 
the Window Manager). Let's say that you want Xnee to pause recording if you 
press p and to resume when pressing Comntrol and r. 
@example
   @code{cnee --record --mouse --events-to-record -1 --pause-key p \}
   @code{--resume-key r}
@end example
This will make xnee record mouse events until you press p. 
All printouts are done to stdout so you can see that Xnee stops when you
press the key. 
@*
Move your mouse for a while and you'll see xnee print out lots of lines. 
@*
Press p. 
@*
Xnee will now have paused recording. Move your mouse for a while and note that
nothing is printed.
@*
Press r. 
@*
Xnee will now have resumed recording. Move your mouse for a while and note that
xnee begins its printouts.


@section    Using macro 
Macors can be used in various applications allthough many applicaions have 
a macro functionality built in (e.g emacs). 

@subsection Define a simple macro
@cindex     Define a simple macro
There are plenty of tools that bind a key combination to 
different actions. For various reasons the author of this manual is familliar
with xkeymouse so we will use xkeymouse in this example.
@*
The first thing to do is to decide which key combination to tie
to the wanted action. Let's say we want to use one of the funtion keys, F1. 
We then have to find out which keycode belongs to that key. The action we will 
bind to this key combination will be the replaying of a recorded
session from the previous examples. 
@*
We use Xnee to find the keycode for F1. Start xnee.
@example
   @code{cnee --record --keyboard --events-to-record 20}
@end example
Press the F1 key and see what number was printed out. It will look something
like this:
@example
@code{0,2,0,0,0,67,0,90300078}
@code{0,3,0,0,0,67,0,90300156}
@end example
The interesting part here is the 6th column. In our example we find 67, which
is the keycode for F1.
@*
Now we move on to setup xkeymouse to grab F1 and bind that to replay the 
mouse motions from the file @code{mouse-rec.xnl}. Open or create a new file
in your home directory called @code{.xkmrc} and add the lines.
@example
@code{keycode=67, 0, Exec, xnee,  --replay --file mouse-rec.xnl, \}
@code{Fork, NoAutoRepeat}
@end example
Let's try it. Start xkeymouse with verbose printouts.
@example
@code{xkeymouse --verbose}
@end example
Press F1 and the recorded session from the previous example shall be replayed. You
can also see in the verbose printouts that xkeymouse executes xnee.


@subsection Define another simple macro
@cindex     Define another simple macro
Let's say we want to bind Control and e to execute the session as in the
example above. This time setting up xkeymouse is a bit easier.
@*
Setup xkeymouse to grab F1 and bind that to replay the 
mouse motions from the file @code{mouse-rec.xnl} by opening or create a 
new file in your home directory called @code{.xkmrc} and add the lines.
@example
@code{e, Control, Exec, xnee,  --replay --file mouse-rec.xnl, \}
@code{Fork, NoAutoRepeat}
@end example
Let's try it. Start xkeymouse with verbose printouts.
@example
@code{xkeymouse --verbose}
@end example
Press Control and e and the recorded session from the previous example 
shall be replayed.












@section    Various options

@subsection Using verbose mode
@cindex     Using verbose mode
To enable verbose mode, start xnee like this
@example
@code{cnee --verbose --record --mouse}
@end example
Move the mouse for a while and you'll lots of verbose printouts that 
usualy isn't there.


@subsection Using human readable printouts
@cindex     Using human readable printouts
To enable human printout mode, start xnee like this
@example
@code{cnee --human-printout --record --mouse}
@end example
Move the mouse for a while and you'll see the data printed out in an almost
human friendly format.



@subsection Using a differet screen resolution
@cindex     Using a differet screen resolution
If a session was recorded on a screen with another resolution than 
on the one where we replay the session xnee will translate all coordinates
automagically. However, you can force xnee to use a specific resolution when 
replaying. To do this, start xnee like this
@example
@code{cnee --replay --file mouse-rec.xnl \ }
@code{--replay-resolution  800x600}
@end example
Xnee will now replay the events recorded in the sessions file 
@code{mouse-rec.xnl} as if the screen has a resolution of 800x600. 


@subsection Using no resolution translation
@cindex     Using no resolution translation
If a session was recorded on a screen with another resolution than the
on the one where we replay the session xnee will translate all coordinates
automagically. However, you can force xnee not to use translation. To do this, 
start xnee like this
@example
@code{cnee --replay --file mouse-rec.xnl \ }
@code{--no-resolution-adjustment}
@end example
Xnee will now replay the events recorded in the sessions file 
@code{mouse-rec.xnl} as if the screen had the same resolution 
the recorded one.



@subsection Record another display than the default
@cindex     Record another display than the default
If you want to record another display than the default, as set in the 
DISPLAY variable, you use the @code{--display} option.
@example
@code{cnee --record --mouse --display frodo:0.0 }
@end example
Xnee will now record the mouse events on the display frodo:0.0.


@subsection Replay to another display than the default
@cindex     Replay to another display than the default
If you want to replay to another display than the default, as set in the 
DISPLAY variable, you use the @code{--display} option.
@example
@code{cnee --replay --display frodo:0.0 --file mouse-rec.xnl }
@end example
Xnee will now replay the mouse events on the display frodo:0.0.

@section    Shell scripts using Xnee
@cindex     Shell scripts using Xnee
Insted of onvoking Xnee for every time you need to fake events
you can make use of the shell functions as delivered with Xnee. 
With these functions you can start one instance of Xnee and fake
device events whenever you need.
@example

@code{#!/bin/bash }
@code{ }
@code{# Source in handy functions }
@code{. /usr/share/Xnee/xnee.sh }
@code{ }
@code{# Set up file for communication with Xnee }
@code{xnee_init_file}
@code{ }
@code{# Loop and press buttons }
@code{TMP=0 }
@code{while [ $TMP -le 5]}
@code{do}
@code{  TMP=$(($TMP+1))}
@code{  xnee_fake_button $TMP }
@code{done}
@code{ }
@code{# Just a simple example ....don't bother to understand }
@code{tar cvf /tmp/crap.tar *}
@code{sleep 2}
@code{ }
@code{# Fake ls and Enter }
@code{xnee_fake_key l}
@code{xnee_fake_key s}
@code{xnee_fake_key XK_Return}
@code{ }
@code{# Close down }
@code{xnee_close_down }
@code{ }
@end example
This example will fake press and release of the mouse button and 
do fake press and release of ls followed by a press and release 
of Enter.... and of course, you'll get a tar file in /tmp.


Make sure that the path to the @code{xnee.sh} is correct.


