@node    Usage, File format, Examples, top
@chapter Usage

@section  Modes
@cindex modes
Xnee has three modes:
@itemize @bullet
@item	record  (default mode)
@item	replay
@item	distribute
@end itemize
The distributiion mechanism can be used together with the other two.


@subsection  Record
@cindex recording
When record mode is used Xnee receives a copy of the data sent to and from the X server. The copy is printed to either stdout or a file. Xnee can record more data than only mouse and keyboard events.


@subsection  Replay
@cindex replaying
When replay mode is used Xnee reads data from a file or stdin. These data is either sent to the server (if it is a keyboard or a mouse event) or used to synchronise with (if any of the other data). Xnee can also retype the contents of a text file.

@subsection  Distribution
@cindex distributing
Xnee can distribute mouse and keyboard events to multiple displays. The distribution mechanism can be used when recording as well as when replaying.

@subsection  Distribution
@cindex distributing
Xnee can distribute mouse and keyboard events to multiple displays. The distribution mechanism can be used when recording as well as when replaying.



@section  Ranges
@cindex ranges
What data to record is specified using ranges. Ranges has a start value and a stop value. The following data can be recorded: 

@multitable  @columnfractions .10 .45 .45 
@item
@tab @b{Xnee name}
@tab @b{X Protocol Name}

@item
@tab core-requests
@tab Request

@item
@tab device-event		
@tab Event 

@item
@tab delivered-event		
@tab Event

@item
@tab error			
@tab Error

@item
@tab reply			
@tab Reply

@item
@tab ext-requests.ext-major	
@tab Extension Request

@item
@tab ext-requests.ext-minor	
@tab Extension Request

@item
@tab ext-replies.ext-major	
@tab Extension Reply

@item
@tab ext-replies.ext-minor	
@tab Extension Reply

@end multitable
To find out what number belongs to what data name, you can use the @code{--print-data-name'} option. For an explanation on the X protocol data, please read the "X Record Extension Library" or the "Record Extension Protocol Specification".


@section  First and last motion event
Xnee has the ability to skip recording of succesive motion events with no other data in between. This option is intended to reduce the number of data recorded by leaving out unnecessary data. This feature can be invoked with the --first-last flag.

@section  Delay
Sometimes when Xnee starts recording data, the keyrelease (due to pressing and releasing RETURN to execute the Xnee command line) is recorded. This single keyrelease (with no corresponding keypress) might confuse the X server. With the --time <secs> option Xnee can be paused for secs seconds.


@section  Verbose
When enabling verbose mode (--verbose) Xnee prints a lot of information about it's state. This option is only intended for debugging. 

@section  Human printouts
Sometimes it's hard to decide what data to use when synchronising. To do this you simply have to see what data is printed out when recording. Instead of reading the data number, s tring representation of the data is printed out. To enable this option, use the "--human-printouts"





@section  Invoking Xnee
The mode(s) Xnee shall use and the ranges to use can be set by either:
@itemize @bullet
@item	command line options
@item	resource file
@item	recorded file (only apllicable when in replay mode)
@end itemize
The three can be used together or alone. However, when given multiple specifications to a setting that can take one value (e.g printout redirection, number of data to record) the latest specification is used.

@subsection  Command line syntax
@cindex command line syntax
To get information about how to use Xnee's command line options please use the man page(s).

@subsection  Project file
To use a resource file use the @code{--project} option,  e.g @code{cnee --project xnee/projects/netscape.xns}

@subsection  Recorded file
To use a recorded file use the @code{--file} option,  e.g 
@code{xnee --file user1_session.xns}


@section  Interupting Xnee
@cindex  interupting xnee
Interupting Xnee when recording or replaying can be done as follows
@itemize @bullet
@item	user specified modifier and key
@item	number of data to record
@item	sending a SIGTERM signal (e.g pressing Control-c in a terminal window)
@end itemize

@subsection User specified modifier and key
@cindex modifier and key
@cindex key and modifier
It is possible to specify a modifier (e.g Control button) and a key (e.g 'a') 
that will stop the Xnee session. When using this option make sure that the 
modifier/key is not used in any way by the applications you are recording. 
It is possible to stop,pasue, resume Xnee from recording or replaying. One
can also insert a mark in the recorded session file. Furthermore one can, 
during replay, execute a given command/program using the exec mark.

@subsection  Key syntax
@cindex      Key syntax
You can set the key by entering one character or the keycode for the 
character you wish to use. 

@subsection  Modifier syntax
@cindex      Modifier syntax

Modifiers can be set to a '+' separated list of any of the following.
@table @samp
@item  Shift or Shift
        Modifier is set to the Shift key
@item  LockMask or Lock
        Modifier is set to the Lock key
@item  Control or ctrl
        Modifier is set to the Control key
@item  Mod1Mask or m1m
        Modifier is set to 
@item  Mod2Mask or m2m
        Modifier is set to 
@item  Mod3Mask or m3m
        Modifier is set to 
@item  Mod4Mask or m4m
        Modifier is set to 
@item  Mod5Mask or m5m
        Modifier is set to 
@item  Alt_L
        Modifier is set to Alt_L
@item  Alt_L
        Modifier is set to Alt_R
@item  Alt 
        Modifier is set to be any of Alt_L and Alt_R
@item  Shift_R
        Modifier is set to Shift_R
@item  Shift_L
        Modifier is set to Shift_L
@item  Shift
        Modifier is set to be any of Shift_L and Shift_R
@item  Control_R
        Modifier is set to Control_R
@item  Control_L
        Modifier is set to Control_L
@item  Control
        Modifier is set to be any of Control_L and Control_R
@item  Scroll
        Modifier is set Scroll
@item  Caps_Lock
        Modifier is set Caps Lock
@item  AnyModifier or any
        Modifier is set to any of the modifier
@item  none or 0
        No modifier is used
@end table

You can also specify the keycode for the modifier you wish to use


@subsection  Stop Xnee with key+modifier combination
@cindex      Stop Xnee with key+modifier combination
Xnee stops its current action when the user presses the key+modifier
combination as specified during setup. Xnee will be shut gracefully.

@subsection  Pause Xnee with key+modifier combination
@cindex      Pause Xnee with key+modifier combination
Xnee pause its current action when the user presses the key+modifier
combination as specified during setup. Xnee will be in paused mode until
the user stops or resumes Xnee.

@subsection  Pause Xnee with key+modifier combination
@cindex      Pause Xnee with key+modifier combination
Xnee resumes its current paused action when the user presses the key+modifier
combination as specified during setup. Xnee will continue where it was
paused.

@subsection  Insert marks Xnee with key+modifier combination
@cindex      Insert marks Xnee with key+modifier combination
When the user presses the key+modifier combination as specified during setup 
Xnee will print a mark in the session file containing a time stamp. This 
feature is intended be used when you want to mark an interresting time/event 
during recording. After recording has finished you can add Xnee scripting 
calls to Xnee which will be interpreted and executed as if they were recorded.


@subsection Modifier+key examples
@cindex  Modifier+key  examples

If you want to set the modifier to be a combination of Control, Alt and Shift 
you spearate them with a @code{+} sign.
@example
@code{Control+Alt+Shift}
@end example

If you want to make Xnee stop when pressing the above modifier combination 
and the key, you type 
@example
@code{--stop-key Control+Alt+Shift,y} 
@end example



@subsection Limit number of data to record
There a a few ways to limit the number of data Xnee records.
@itemize @bullet
@item	limit the events to recored
@item	limit the data to recored
@item	limit the time to recored
@item	send a signal to xnee (SIGTERM)
@item	use a selfmade record callback function
@end itemize

@subsection Limit the events to record
@cindex limit the events
When having received the specified amount of events from the server, Xnee 
stops the recording. For more information on how to use this option, read
the man page for cnee or the user manual for gnee.

@subsection Limit the data to record
@cindex limit the data
When having received the specified amount of data from the server, Xnee 
stops the recording. For more information on how to use this option, read
the man page for cnee or the user manual for gnee.

@subsection Limit the time to record
@cindex limit the events
When having recorded for the specified amount of time from the server, Xnee 
stops the recording. For more information on how to use this option, read
the man page for cnee or the user manual for gnee.

@subsection Send SIGTERM to Xnee
@cindex SIGTERM
The easiest way to send a signal to a process is by launching Xnee from a 
terminal window (e.g xterm). By pressing Control-c xterm sends the 
SIGTERM signal to Xnee. When replaying it can sometimes be hard to 
move the pointer into the terminal window (e.g if a lot of motion 
events were recorded that will let you compete with Xnee on where 
the mouse pointer shall be located. Beleive me, you'll end up lossing 
that battle).  

@section  Using Xnee plugins 
@cindex plugins
Xnee supports plugins since version 1.07. For information about how to 
write plugins, download the source code and look at the plugin example 
which shall be delivered with Xnee.
