@chapter Getting started

@section Getting started 
@cindex  Getting started 
To get the first feel of Xnee some simple examples are presented. 

@subsection Simple replay
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm) and then start Xnee, 
@example
   @code{cnee --replay --file example1.xnr &}
@end example
....dont forget '&'.
The file example1.xnr contains keyboard events recorded during 
development of this manual. When replayed you'll see what was typed and of 
course more important yu'll get i first glimpse of Xnee and its capabilities. 
For information on where to find the example files, see below.

@subsection Simple recording of Key presses
We move on to a (very) simple recording session.
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm) and your favorite editor.
Move the pointer to one of the terminal windows and start Xnee.
@example
   @code{cnee --record -o example2.xnr --device-event-range 2-3 \}
   @code{--time 5 --loops 20}
@end example
Move the pointer to the editor and get focus (e.g click the 
window frame). After 5 seconds you can type whatever you want to record 
(20 press- and relase events of the keyboard are recorded). We are done
and you have recorded your first session! Leave the desktop as it 
is and go forward to the next example.



@subsection Simple replaying of your recorded file
Start one terminal emulator (e.g xterm).
Let Xnee repeat the stuff you did in the example above. 
Undo all changes in the editor that was made in the previous example.
Move the pointer to one of the terminal windows and start Xnee.
@example
   @code{cnee --replay -f example2.xnr --time 5}
@end example
Move the pointer to the editor and get focus (e.g click the 
window frame). After 5 seconds you will see your typings in the example 
above being repeated.

@subsection Simple recording of mouse motions
We move on to another simple recording session.
Start a terminal emulator (e.g xterm).
Move the pointer to the terminal window and start Xnee.
@example
   @code{cnee --record -o example3.xnr --device-event-range 5-6 \}
   @code{--time 5 --loops 20}
@end example
After 5 seconds you can move the pointer around (20 motion events are recorded).

@subsection Simple replaying of your recorded file
Let Xnee repeat the stuff you did in the example above.. 
Move the pointer to the terminal window and start Xnee.
@example
   @code{cnee --replay -f example3.xnr --time 5}
@end example
After 5 seconds you will see your mouse motions in the example above being 
repplayed.

@subsection Simple retyping of a text file
Let Xnee retype (type again) the text in a text file.
Move the pointer to the terminal window and create a text file containing
the command @code{ls -l}. 
@example
   @code{echo "ls -l" > ./mytext.txt}
@end example
And after that you start Xnee.
@example
   @code{cnee --retype-file  ./mytext.txt --time 5}
@end example
After 5 seconds you will see Xnee type @code{ls -l}, which probably will 
list the files in the current directory.

@subsection Example Xnee Session files
@cindex     Example Xnee Session files
The example file above (example1.xnr) is a session file that has been 
delivered with the sources (allthough not installed), rpm and with the 
Xnee Documentation Package. The file(s) can be found:
@multitable  @columnfractions .30 .30 .30 
@item
@tab @b{Distribution}
@tab @b{Location}

@item
@tab RPM
@tab /usr/lib/xnee/session

@item
@tab Source
@tab ./sessions/

@item
@tab Document Package
@tab ./sessions/
@end multitable





















