@chapter FAQ


@table @samp

@item Where do I send questions?
@cindex questions is sent where?
@email{info-xnee@@gnu.org}
@*

@item Where and how do I report bugs?
@cindex Report bugs?
Turn on verbose mode @code{cnee --verbose} and save the printouts. 
Include all printouts and log files in the mail which is sent to
@email{xnee-bug@@gnu.org}
@*

@item Can you add xxx functionality to Xnee
  Send an email to @email{xnee-devel@@gnu.org} and we'll consider it.

@item Why the name Xnee?
@cindex why name it Xnee
We wanted to use a recursive acronym, as GNU (``GNU's Not Unix'). 
After having read the Wine documentation, we thought that Xnee is not an 
Event Emulator would work fine since Xnee is Not an Event Emulator but 
rather a event recorder and faker. 

@item What does the name gnee mean?
@cindex  What does the name gnee mean?
          gnee's not an Emulator Either

@item What doesn't the name gnee mean?
@cindex  What does the name gnee mean?
          gnee's not an Event Emulator  



@item What license is Xnee released under ?
@cindex license
GPL version two or later. Which can be found at
@url{http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html}. Xnee will switch to GPLv3
as soon as GPLv3 is released.


@item Where is the CVS repository?
You can find a CVS tree at @url{http://savannah.gnu.org}.
You are more than welcome to join

@item Is there a GUI frontend for Xnee ?
@cindex GUI frontend for Xnee
Yes! Gnee.


@item When setting ranges (integers), how do I know what numbers belong 
to X11 data?
@cindex what numbers belong to X11 data?
You can either type the data name directly (e.g MotionNotify) or you 
can use the 
print-xxx-name options. 
@itemize @bullet
@item  @code{--print-data-name} 
@item  @code{--print-event-name}
@item  @code{--print-error-name}
@item  @code{--print-reply-name}
@item  @code{--print-request-name} 
@end itemize

@item Can Xnee record more than one display?
@cindex can Xnee record more than one display
No, we used to consider adding the functionality but have no plans to
implement it anymore.

@item When starting Xnee I am informed that I am missing the RECORD extension
@cindex missing RECORD extension
Your X server doesn't have the RECORD extension either loaded or compiled. To solve this you have to, depending on what Xserver you have do the following:

@itemize @bullet
@item XFree86 4.0 and higher
Make sure that the RECORD extension is loaded. This is done by letting the Module section in the X config file (e.g /etc/X11/XF86Config-4) look something like:

@code{Section "Module"}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "dbe"         # Double-buffering}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "GLcore"      # OpenGL support}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "dri"         # Direct rendering infrastructure}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "glx"         # OpenGL X protocol interface}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "extmod"      # Misc. required extensions}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "v4l"         # Video4Linux}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# Load  "pex5"      # PHIGS for X 3D environment (obsolete)}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "record"      # X event recorder}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# Load  "xie"       # X Image Extension (obsolete)}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# You only need the following two modules if you do not use xfs.}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# Load  "freetype"  # TrueType font handler}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# Load  "type1"     # Adobe Type 1 font handler}@*
EndSection

The important load directive (in this case) is the following line@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "record"  # X event recorder}@*



@item X.org, XFree86 (3.3 and lower)  or any other Xserver
Recompile and reinstall the Xserver and make sure that RECORD extension 
is built into the Xserver. Please look at the documentation from your 
Xserver "vendor" on how to do that.
@end itemize

@item   How do I build VNC so that I can use Xnee together with it?
@cindex Build VNC to be used with Xnee
@*
Download vnc source from:
@*
@url{http://www.uk.research.att.com/vnc/xvnchistory.html}
@*
@*
In the file @code{Xvnc/config/cf/vnc.def} change NO on the following 
items to YES as below:
@*
@code{#define BuildRECORD YES}
@*
@code{#define BuildRECORDlib YES}
@*
@*
Download the Xfree86 distribution from @url{http://www.xfree86.org}. 
Specifically, the following dir, 
(currently in the file @code{X430src-3.tgz file} ):
@*
@code{tar zxvf \}
@*
@code{X430src-3.tgz }
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record/}
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record/Imakefile}
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record/record.c}
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record/recordmod.c}
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record/set.c}
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record/set.h}
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record/module/}
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record/module/Imakefile}
@*
@code{cp -rf \}
@*
@code{xc/programs/Xserver/record \}
@*
@code{vnc_unixsrc/Xvnc/programs/Xserver}
@*
@code{cd libvncauth/}
@code{xmkmf}
@code{make all}
@*
@code{cd Xvnc}
@code{make World |& tee LOG}
@*
@*
Verify the build by running @code{xdpyinfo} in an xterm in the vncserver 
and verify that RECORD and XTEST extensions are loaded.


@item How do I ensure that the mouse, during replay, is at the same position (x,y) as when recorded?
Use the @code{--store-mouse-pos} option. 
This will cause Xnee to store the mouse position before starting to record. This position will be used to set the start position before replaying of recorded data starts.

@item How do I ensure that the same window is focused as when recorded?
It's simple, just make sure that you record the window getting focus.

@item The window pops up at different positions when replaying, can Xnee handle that?
Yes, use the @code{--recall-window-position} option when
replaying (with cnee). This makes cnee try yo reposition the window as
it was positioned when recording the session.

@item Xnee seems to mess up my entire session after replaying a sessions which was interupted by Control-C?
Xnee records the KeyPress belonging to Control. After that the system
sends Xnee a signal which makes Xnee stop recording. So you end up
having a Control KeyPress recorded, with no coresponding
KeyRelease. To solve the screwed up session, press Control (which
generates a KeyPress and the wanted KeyRelease). If you want to keep
your recorded session and not want this to happen again, remove the
last line in the recorded file starting with @code{2,}.


A better way to interrupt Xnee is to use the stop key option, e.g in
cnee @code{--stop-key F1}. This prevents the above situation.


@item Autorepeat is turned off by Xnee, how do I turn it on again?
@code{xset r on}


@end table

