@chapter Description

@section Short description
Xnee can record and replay user sessions in the X Windows System environment.

@section Summary
  Xnee is a suite of programs that can record, replay and
  distribute user actions under the X11 environment. 
  Think of it as a robot that can imitate the job you just 
  did. 

Xnee consists of a library and two applications

  @b{xnee} - command line program

  @b{gnee} - graphical user interface program

  @b{libxnee} - library used by xnee and gnee

            
            
@section Xnee features
@cindex features

@b{Test tool}
        Instead of performing test cases for a GUI (or CLI program) 
        over and over again, the test cases can be automated. Simply record 
        a user session and replay it later. 

@b{Performance test tool}
	If you want to simulate lots of simultaneous users in a network (or
	a local machine) you can use Xnee. Simply record a user
	session and start multiple instances of Xnee.

@b{Demonstration tool}
	You can use Xnee to demonstrate the features of your program. Simply 
	record a user session and replay it later. 

@b{Distribution tool}
	If you want to send over your mouse/keyboard actions to another display
	you can use the built-in distribution mechanism in Xnee. 

@b{Macro recorder/replayer}
	By binding a key and modifier combination (e.g using xkeymouse)
  to replay a recorded session you will have a Window Manager and 
  application independent macro.

@b{File retyper}
   Xnee can retype the contents of a file. This can be useful
   during tests or if you want xnee to answer some command
   session without having to record the session.


@section Description
@cindex description
The Xnee applications (gnee and xnee) receives X11 protocol data (e.g. events)
from an X server (using libxnee) and print them to a file, called Xnee 
Session File. Theses events are later read from the session file and replayed.
Gnee and xnee can read its settings from a file, called Xnee Project File, 
or from command line (cnee) or via the GUI (gnee).


@*
Events directly generated by the user (e.g KeyPress) can be replayed 
or faked. Requests, replies, errors and events not directly generated by the 
user (e.g MapNotify) can be recorded as well. By using these data  
Xnee can replay with synchronisation. This is not only useful but essential. 


@section Background
@cindex background
In order to verify that a program does the job it's supposed to do, 
certain tests have to be made. 
These tests are, IMHO, perhaps the most boring things a programmer 
can do. To release the programmer from this burdon Xnee is made. 
@*

Xnee started out as a commad line program. During the development
phase the main functionality was broken out to a library, called
libxnee. The command line program kept the name xnee. The thought behind 
making the library was to enable the writing of other clients than just 
the command line. Today there is a GUI program, gnee, that uses the library.
@*

By using xnee your testcase(s) can be recorded and later on replayed.
Xnee comes with other features For more information about these, read the 
Introduction.


