@chapter FAQ


@table @samp

@item When setting ranges (integers), how do I know what numbers belong to X11 data?
@cindex When setting ranges (integers), how do I know what numbers belong to X11 data?
You can either type the name directly (e.g MotionNotify) or you can use the print-xxx-name options. 
@itemize @bullet
@item  @code{--print-data-name} 
@item  @code{--print-event-name}
@item  @code{--print-error-name}
@item  @code{--print-reply-name}
@item  @code{--print-request-name} 
@end itemize

@item Can Xnee record more than one display?
@cindex can Xnee record more than one display
 No, but we are considering adding the functionality (see the TODO file)

@item Will you put up a source tree so that I can join ?
 You can find a CVS tree (soon) at Sourceforge.
 You are more than welcome to join

@item Is there a GUI frontend for Xnee ?
@cindex GUI frontend for Xnee
 No !

@item Can I write a GUI frontend for you ?
@cindex can Xnee record more than one display
 Yes !

@item What license is Xnee released under ?
@cindex license
 GPL  @url{http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html}

@item Why GPL?
@cindex why gpl
 We think:
@itemize @bullet
@item  programs shall be free
@item  xnee is a fun way for me to (hopefully) become a better programmer
@item  xnee is a small payback for our free operating systems (GNU/Linux and OpenBSD)
@item  xnee is a way to make free operating systems better and more widely used than XXX
@end itemize
 And of course I think it would be a great kick for my ego to have other 
 people using my programs (especially if the alternative is a non-free program on a non-free operating system).

@item Why the name Xnee?
@cindex why name it Xnee
  We wanted to use a recursive acronym, as GNU (``GNU's Not Unix'). After having read the Wine documentation, I thought that Xnee is not an Event Emulator would work fine. Since Xnee is Not an Event Emulator but rather a XEvent generator. Emulation is not part of the game here.... 
  .... it just sounds nice! 

@item Can you add xxx functionality to Xnee
  Send an email to @email{xnee@@sandklef.com} and we'll consider it.


@item When starting Xnee I get noticed that I am missing RECORD extension
@cindex missing RECORD extension
Your X server doesn't have the RECORD extension either loaded or compiled. To solve this you have to, depending on what Xserver you have do the following:

@itemize @bullet
@item XFree86 4.0 and higher
Make sure that the RECORD extension is loaded. This is done by letting the Module section in the X config file (e.g /etc/X11/XF86Config-4) look something like:

@code{Section "Module"}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "dbe"             # Double-buffering}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "GLcore"          # OpenGL support}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "dri"             # Direct rendering infrastructure}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "glx"             # OpenGL X protocol interface}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "extmod"          # Misc. required extensions}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "v4l"             # Video4Linux}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# Load  "pex5"          # PHIGS for X 3D environment (obsolete)}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "record"  # X event recorder}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# Load  "xie"           # X Image Extension (obsolete)}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# You only need the following two modules if you do not use xfs.}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# Load  "freetype"       # TrueType font handler}@*
@ @ @ @ @code{# Load  "type1"         # Adobe Type 1 font handler}@*
EndSection

The important load directive (in this case) is the following line@*
@ @ @ @ @code{Load  "record"  # X event recorder}@*



@item X.org, XFree86 (3.3 and lower)  or any other Xserver
Recompile and reinstall the Xserver and make sure that RECORD extension is built into the Xserver. Please look at the documentation from your Xserver "vendor" on how to do that.
@end itemize

@item Where do I send questions?
@cindex questions is sent where?
 @email{xnee@@sandklef.com}


@end table


